README.md, before:

# ParallelDataTransfer.jl

[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)
[![AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/c8tqjhxx9679gl6u?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ChrisRackauckas/paralleldatatransfer-jl)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)
[![coveralls](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)

A bunch of helper functions for transferring data between worker processes.

## Installation

To install the package, simply use:

```julia
Pkg.add("ParallelDataTransfer")
addprocs(n) # Adds n processes
@everywhere using ParallelDataTransfer
```

For the most up to date version, checkout master by using:

```julia
Pkg.checkout("ParallelDataTransfer")
```

## Usage

For examples of usage, please see the tests.

```julia
# Creates an integer x and Matrix y on processes 1 and 2
sendto([1, 2], x=100, y=rand(2, 3))

# Create a variable here, then send it everywhere else
z = randn(10, 10); sendto(workers(), z=z)

# Create the variable x with a value 3 directly on process 4
@defineat 4 x=3

# Broadcast a value 3 to x on all workers
@broadcast x=3

# Get an object from named x from Main module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 x
# Or
y = getfrom(2,:x)

# Get an object from named x from Foo module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 x Foo
# Or
y = getfrom(2,:x,Foo)

# Get an object from named foo.x from Foo module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 foo.x Foo
# Using the function will not work!

# pass variable named x from process 2 to all other processes
@passobj 2  filter(x->x!=2, procs())  x
# Or
passobj(2, filter(x->x!=2, procs()), :x)

# pass variables t, u, v from process 3 to process 1
passobj(3, 1, [:t, :u, :v])

# Pass a variable from the `Foo` module on process 1 to Main on workers
@passobj 1 workers() Foo.foo
#Or
passobj(1, workers(), [:foo]; from_mod=Foo)
```

## Performance Note

Note that this form of passing variables will define the variables in the global
namespace of the process. Thus, for performance reasons, it's recommended that
these variables are acted on inside of a function (just like in the REPL). An
example for doing this is:

```julia
# Send things to process 2
@defineat 2 a=5
@defineat 2 function usea(a)
  # Do your stuff here
  ans=a
end
# Use the function a on process 2
@defineat 2 ans=usea(a) # this safely uses the usea and a from process 2
# Get the answer from process 2
@getfrom 2 ans
```

In the "master" process this will define `ans` as a global. Once again, you should
not work directly with the global since that will degrade the performance. So,
since you are working in a function, you should assert the type of the variable
so that way it's strictly typed. For example:

```julia
function test()
  @defineat 2 a=5
  a = (@getfrom 2 a)::Int64 # This will make a stictly typed

  # Continue in your code using b
  a
end
```

Declaring the type of `a` will work as well. If you put these two design principles
together (use the passed variables in a function, and type the returns), then your
code will be parallel and type-stable.


## Credit

Lots of credit goes to [the StackExchange users who developed some of the original solutions.](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/27677399/julia-how-to-copy-data-to-another-processor-in-julia).
This package adds some tests to ensure that these functions continue to work properly,
updated them to v0.5, and adds some macros to unify the API (also avoids issues
that came up with original functions and generalizes them a bit).
Special thanks to @TotalVerb and @oxinabox for help via Gitter.

Commit message:

update to encourage issues/PRs

README.md, after:

# ParallelDataTransfer.jl

[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)
[![AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/c8tqjhxx9679gl6u?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ChrisRackauckas/paralleldatatransfer-jl)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)
[![coveralls](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/ChrisRackauckas/ParallelDataTransfer.jl)

A bunch of helper functions for transferring data between worker processes.

## Installation

To install the package, simply use:

```julia
Pkg.add("ParallelDataTransfer")
addprocs(n) # Adds n processes
@everywhere using ParallelDataTransfer
```

For the most up to date version, checkout master by using:

```julia
Pkg.checkout("ParallelDataTransfer")
```

## Usage

For examples of usage, please see the tests.

```julia
# Creates an integer x and Matrix y on processes 1 and 2
sendto([1, 2], x=100, y=rand(2, 3))

# Create a variable here, then send it everywhere else
z = randn(10, 10); sendto(workers(), z=z)

# Create the variable x with a value 3 directly on process 4
@defineat 4 x=3

# Broadcast a value 3 to x on all workers
@broadcast x=3

# Get an object from named x from Main module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 x
# Or
y = getfrom(2,:x)

# Get an object from named x from Foo module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 x Foo
# Or
y = getfrom(2,:x,Foo)

# Get an object from named foo.x from Foo module on process 2. Name it y
y = @getfrom 2 foo.x Foo
# Using the function will not work!

# pass variable named x from process 2 to all other processes
@passobj 2  filter(x->x!=2, procs())  x
# Or
passobj(2, filter(x->x!=2, procs()), :x)

# pass variables t, u, v from process 3 to process 1
passobj(3, 1, [:t, :u, :v])

# Pass a variable from the `Foo` module on process 1 to Main on workers
@passobj 1 workers() Foo.foo
#Or
passobj(1, workers(), [:foo]; from_mod=Foo)
```

## Performance Note

Note that this form of passing variables will define the variables in the global
namespace of the process. Thus, for performance reasons, it's recommended that
these variables are acted on inside of a function (just like in the REPL). An
example for doing this is:

```julia
# Send things to process 2
@defineat 2 a=5
@defineat 2 function usea(a)
  # Do your stuff here
  ans=a
end
# Use the function a on process 2
@defineat 2 ans=usea(a) # this safely uses the usea and a from process 2
# Get the answer from process 2
@getfrom 2 ans
```

In the "master" process this will define `ans` as a global. Once again, you should
not work directly with the global since that will degrade the performance. So,
since you are working in a function, you should assert the type of the variable
so that way it's strictly typed. For example:

```julia
function test()
  @defineat 2 a=5
  a = (@getfrom 2 a)::Int64 # This will make a stictly typed

  # Continue in your code using b
  a
end
```

Declaring the type of `a` will work as well. If you put these two design principles
together (use the passed variables in a function, and type the returns), then your
code will be parallel and type-stable.

I am interested in suggestions for making this usage more "automatic". If you have
design ideas / implementations to recommend, feel free to open issues and submit PRs.

## Credit

Lots of credit goes to [the StackExchange users who developed some of the original solutions.](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/27677399/julia-how-to-copy-data-to-another-processor-in-julia).
This package adds some tests to ensure that these functions continue to work properly,
updated them to v0.5, and adds some macros to unify the API (also avoids issues
that came up with original functions and generalizes them a bit).
Special thanks to @TotalVerb and @oxinabox for help via Gitter.
